# Kickstarter Campaign Analysis
In recent years, Kickstarter has been one of the leaders in online crowdfunding platforms. Unlike its competitors, Kickstarter utilizes and “all-or-nothing” style crowdfunding effort, meaning that backers only have to pay their pledge if the project reaches its fundraising goal. According to Kickstarter, there have been a total of 17,232,552 backers for projects, with a total pledge amount of $4,698,908,879. Further, over 34% of projects are a success on this platform. This is a huge amount of money involved here and a relatively high likelihood of success. Many companies have started as a kickstarter campaign and have then become large legitimate companies. The Pebble Smart Watch started on Kickstarter and was bought out by FitBit in 2017. Oculus Rift, one of the most popular virtual reality headset was started on Kickstarter as well and was bought by Facebook for over $2,000,000,000. Thus, it is important to understand what makes projects successful, so that others can hopefully find better success for their ideas as well. Initially, I found data on Kaggle, which I explored and began cleaning. However, after further research, I found a better dataset on data.world (https://data.world/rdowns26/kickstarter-campaigns/workspace/file?filename=kickstarter_data_full.csv). This new dataset provided additional information into some key characteristics, such as the Staff Pick indicator variable, details surrounding when projects were initially created, before being launched, as well as multiple links for each project to find out more about the project’s creator, story, and rewards. Both of these dataset left me wanting to know more about the actual projects themselves. In this project I intend to look at kickstarter from the perspective of a potential creator and both datasets had a lot of information about the projects, but most of the variables had to do with things that a creator would not know in advance or have control how to change. Consequently, I took these urls and attempted to extract information about the actual projects themselves. This project analyzed the factors that contributed to the success or failure of Kickstarter campaigns. My final report containing the results is contained in the HTML file, with the related code in the R-Markdown file(.rmd). The data for the project can also be found in the CSV files.
